Hey everyone, I'm Andrew and I want to invite you into this deeper dive as we take a look at Mark chapter 4 verse 35 through chapter 5 verse 20.
um as we look at the gospel of mark there's incredible testimony of who jesus is.
what he's here to do.
and how he invites us into the process. But here, in this section of Scripture,
It's not good.
Jesus is good, and Jesus does some great things, but people are messy.
The people are fearful.
And this shows you think about fear
And you think about the disciples maybe struggling with the fear.
That they have of the storm.
that they're in the middle of, I want to ask you a question. What are you
Afraid of afraid of.
What are you afraid of?
It's a question that we don't often ask ourselves. We feel the fear.
But sometimes we don't think of where it comes from. What is it rooted in?
What are we really afraid of?
For some of us, it's rejection. For others, it's
Maybe health issues.
An ending of a relationship
Maybe that our life
It doesn't matter.
And these fears can come into our mind and they can
They can sit in there and they can grow roots and
All of a sudden we feel anxious, we feel
These other emotions
And Jesus has something to say.
About our fear.
Jesus has something to say, but he doesn't just want to say it. He wants to
Do something about our fear.
So let's take a look at two scenarios here, one physical and one spiritual.
Things.
that
We
People,
Are afraid of.
And so, if you can pick up with me in Mark chapter 4,
1. Verse 35, on the same day when evening had come, Jesus says to the disciples, let's cross over the
To the other side of the lake.
Now, when they had left the multitude, they took him along in the boat as he was.
And other little boats were also with him.
and a great windstorm arose and the waves beat into the boat.
So that it was already filling.
But Jesus was in the stern.
a sleep on a pillow. I love that.
There's a storm.
and Jesus is sleeping. He's taking a nap.
not just taking a nap he somehow he brought a pillow there's a pillow on the boat i love that.
"'And they awoke him and said to him, "'Teacher, do you not care?'
That we are perishing.
They're afraid.
They see the circumstance, they see the situation, they see the storm.
And they're like, I have.
Do you care?
Lord, do you even care what we're facing, what we're going through?
And he's asleep.
And sometimes we look at Jesus
And we think that he doesn't care.
We believe
That he's removed himself or maybe far off and distant
From what we're feeling and what we're sensing.
And that's not the case at all. Jesus knows exactly what we're facing.
And what we're sensing
But he's not worried because he's sovereign.
Over all things.
There's no sickness, there's no storm, there's no spiritual power that he does not have authority over.
And that is good for us to know and to rest in.
You see, he's sleeping, but it's not because he didn't care. It's because he didn't have
And the disciples did.
So what happens when Jesus gets reinserted back?
Into the story.
Verse thirty nine, he wakes up, then Jesus arose and rebuked the wind.
And he said to the sea,
Peace.
Be still.
and the wind ceased and there was a great calm.
But Jesus said to them, Why are you so fearful? Why are you so afraid?
How is it that you have no faith?
And they feared exceedingly, and said to one another,
Who can this be?
That even the wind and the seas obey him.
You see,
They were fearful and they were afraid.
And the next thing you know, Jesus just speaks a couple words.
And it stops.
And then he rebukes them and says what's going on with you why are you afraid
How come you don't have any faith?
Not faith that
The storm might stop.
But faith in the one who is in the boat with them.
the Son of God, the King of Kings.
And then after that they're afraid again they're like who is this guy
Who is this guy that the wind and the waves obey him?
And here's what I want to
I encourage or maybe even challenge you with today. Today.
Because I've learned this in my faith journey.
Fear, I've heard it said that fear is going into the future.
without God.
Fear is
Allowing my mind to go to a scenario
without God. And you go, "What do you mean, Andrew?"
When I say without God, it means that I have removed Jesus.
Removed him in his power and his sovereignty and his love.
His ability to do anything.
From my scenario.
And so we said earlier what are you afraid of maybe it's the loss of a relationship
And you're afraid that if you let go of that relationship that there might not be another one
Well, can I remind you that if Jesus is in your scenario,
That there may be another one because he's able to do that
that sickness that you're afraid of.
When you think about it, "Oh, what happens if I get sick?"
I don't know.
But Jesus is there in the sickness with you. Jesus is there in the storm with you.
Jesus is in your singleness with you.
and so you don't have to be afraid.
And so if you have gone into the future,
If you have allowed your mind to come up with scenarios
Can I ask you a question?
Where is Jesus in those scenarios?
And if you find yourself walking in fear
Let me encourage you.
You don't have to be afraid.
Just reinsert Jesus back into those scenarios.
And I say that understanding that Jesus doesn't remove himself.
And just because they're in our minds doesn't mean he's not able, but
Would you be mindful to keep him in your scenario?
Put him back in.
Where you're afraid.
Because fear and faith cannot
coexist.
They're at war with one another.
Which is why Jesus said in verse 40, Why are you so fearful? How is it that you have no faith?
where faith is present. Faith not in
us, but faith in Jesus.
Fear cannot stand.
It's 1 John 4:18. Let me read it to you.
There is no fear in love.
But perfect love.
It drives out fear because fear has to do with punishment. Punishment.
The one who fears is not made perfect in love.
And so if you're afraid today,
It doesn't mean that you are failing.
It means that you're not yet made perfect in love.
And so my encouragement to you today is if you find yourself being fearful, you're
Put Jesus back in those scenarios that you're afraid?
But also
Ask God.
to perfect His love in you because perfect love casts out fear.
And so maybe
It's an opportunity for you to pray a prayer. And I just wrote down this very simple prayer.
that you can pray
Just to start that process of asking God.
to teach you perfect love. And here's what it says.
"'Lord, continue to perfect me.'"
In your love.
Where there is fear in my heart?
Show me your power.
And teach me your truth.
Holy Spirit, Holy Spirit.
Increase my faith.
By the power of your love
You see, if we're mindful to put Jesus back in the scenario,
Take our eyes off the storm and put it on a savior?
He will do the work that only He can do.
You see, he was sovereign over the storm whether or not the disciples were afraid.
But his rebuke to them was about their fear.
Remember who's in the boat with you guys.
It's important because he's never going to leave you and he's never going to forsake you. That's the promise that we have.
well they cross
The sea and the storm stops and they get to the other side. What do they find? It's another scenario that's
Full of fear.
It's a demon possessed man.
Verse 2 in chapter 5, when Jesus had come out of the boat immediately, there met him out of the tombs, out of the graveyard. Verse 2.
A man with an unclean spirit.
Who had his dwelling among the tombs?
And no one could bind him, not even with chains.
Because he had often been bound with shackles and chains, and the chains had been pulled apart by him, and the shackles broken in pieces, neither could any one tame him.
And always night and day he was in the mountains and in the tombs.
Crying out.
And cutting himself with stones.
What is that?
That's a guy we might look at him and go
He's too far gone.
I'm afraid of him.
He's strange. he's weird. he's.
He makes me feel unsafe.
And Jesus shows up on the scene.
on a
In a scenario where
People didn't know what to do.
They couldn't even bind him. He was stronger than the shackles.
In verse 6,
This guy sees Jesus from afar.
And he runs and he worships him.
And the demon, the spirit inside of this man,
confesses who Jesus is.
1 Samuel 18, verse 17 says
He cried out with a loud voice and said, What have I to do with you, Jesus, Son of the Most High God?
I implore you by God that you do not torment me.
This evil spirit is speaking through this man, but even
In his speech, he's acknowledging Jesus' sovereignty.
Over him.
The unclean spirit.
He says, Jesus, you're the son of God?
You're the son of the Most High God.
Please don't torment me. He's acknowledging Jesus' power.
His sovereign power
Over spiritual forces.
It's not just a physical storm.
Sometimes we're afraid of spiritual forces.
But can I remind you,
that Jesus has power and absolute authority over all things seen
And unseen.
Over any sickness, over any worry.
Over any spiritual stronghold or darkness.
Jesus is king.
that's who he is that's who we're following.
And so there's,
This scene after this we're not going to go into the whole thing where
Jesus is talking to this guy and it turns out there's a whole bunch of demons living inside of him. They call themselves legion because there's so many.
and they asked to be cast into the swine, the herd of pigs.
This is how we know they're not even in the the nation of israel because in israel pigs were an unclean animal
And so they're across the Sea of Galilee in another country.
because there's a herd of pigs.
And the the demons are saying don't don't send us away please let us just be in those pigs
And Jesus says, okay. And he sends them to the pigs, and they run off the cliff, and they drown in the sea.
And the man is healed.
The spiritual power that he was under?
Has been broken.
And Jesus has taken back what is his. This man belongs to Jesus.
But here's what's important that I want you to see as we finish our time here.
Um,
Pick it up in verse eighteen.
Jesus gets back in the boat.
And when he got into the boat, verse 18, he who had been demon possessed begged him, begged him,
That he might be with him.
However,
1. Jesus did not permit him. 2.
But he said to him,
Go home to your friends and tell them what great things the Lord has done for you.
And how he has had compassion on you.
You see this guy has been healed and he's like, "Ah
You did the thing that nobody else could do. I want to follow you. I want to be close to you.
And I want to remind you that this guy was a follower of Jesus. He had been set free, but Jesus didn't want him to be saved.
To go back
to Israel.
You see this guy who was in that other country remember where the herd of pigs were
But Jesus' message isn't just for the Jews. It's not just for Israel.
Jesus wants his message.
to be known throughout all the world. He wants every nation, every tribe, every tongue to know
The hope that he brings.
And so Jesus sets some boundaries. He's like, "Nope, you can't come with me in the
And if you're like me, you might look at that and go, "Oh,
Jesus told him no.
Jesus told him no. Ah,
Let me ask you a question. Have you ever been told no by Jesus?
And what was your response? What was your reaction?
how did you process that?
Did you trust them?
Were you frustrated? Were you angry?
You see, Jesus tells us no because he has a greater mission. He has a greater purpose for us.
His purpose for this guy?
1st 19 go home to your friends
And tell them the great things the Lord has done for you and how he has had compassion on you.
Jesus didn't want to take this guy out of this country. He wanted to leave him there as an ambassador of the kingdom of God.
That was and is to come.
You see the message of Jesus?
It's for everybody.
The message
It's love.
Not fear.
It's hope.
That you don't have to be afraid and whether it's something physical or something spiritual that you're battling Jesus is sovereign over your storm.
over the chaos that you're experiencing.
Finding yourself in, he is able.
So would you put your trust in him? And if you've taken him out of those scenarios in your mind,
My encouragement to you today is be aware of that and put him back in those scenarios and let him go.
Calm the storms in your life.
Amen.
Let's pray together.
Jesus, we love you.
We're so thankful to be a part
of your kingdom.
To be sons and daughters of the Most High God. And we say thank you for that, Lord, knowing that there are storms, that there's chaos,
Because there are spiritual battles that are happening all around us.
But Lord, we don't have to fear because you are in the boat with us. Amen.
that you have power over
Over those spiritual forces
And God, that you are.
Showing up in ways that we may not yet understand.
You're not walking in fear, Lord. You are the sovereign God.
of the entire universe, lord over everything that we see and everything that we don't see you.
Our King of Kings.
And so we confess that, Lord, if there is an area of our life that we have walked in fear, that
Lord, would you reveal that to us and let us put you back in those scenarios, in our minds, the scenarios that haven't even happened yet?
And the scenario is that may never happen.
Lord, we have removed you from those areas and from those scenarios, and we repent of that. Amen.
so god would you teach us?
Would you teach us to be about your mission, even if you tell us no to our dreams or desires?
or maybe it's a relationship, maybe it's a job, maybe it's a move that you've told us no.
"'Maybe no forever, or maybe no for right now. "'But, God, you've told us no, "'I pray that we would trust you in that.'"
And Lord, because you're teaching us to follow you and you're teaching us that you have something greater at work. You have a plan at work.
And you are inviting us into your plan.
And so God, help us trust you, increase our faith.
Lord, remove our fear, and would you please perfect us in your love.
We love you, Jesus, and we ask all of this in your name.
Amen.